All right, so let's talk
about declaring and instantiating Java Objects.
A Java reference variable is used
to address and manipulate an Object,
and declaring such a variable is basically the same
as declaring primitive data type variables,
String objects and arrays, without the special constructs
that those variables have.
Now, some of the same rules do apply.
An Object is either known by the compiler
or the current context, or needs an import statement,
or a Fully Qualified Class Name, an FQCN,
to satisfy the compiler.
Multiple variables can be declared in a single statement
so long as they're of the same type.
So, here we're showing a valid declaration for an Object.
And just a note about this first declaration,
the Object doesn't need the Fully Qualified Class Name
here because java.lang is automatically in context
for any java class, and, therefore, it doesn't need
an import statement or Fully Qualified Class Name
for type Object.
The java.util.ArrayList arrayList,
this declaration is using a Fully Qualified Class Name
for a variable of type ArrayList.
And on the next line there,
we've got Object x comma y comma z.
Multiple variables can be declared
on a single line for a single type.
We've seen that, previously, but this applies to Objects.
Now, in terms of invalid declaration,
much the same when we're working with primitive types.
Trying to declare multiple variables with different types
in one statement isn't allowed.
So, the example there is
String x, y, z comma Object o.
That's a compiler error.
Instantiating an Object requires, in most cases,
the use of the new keyword, which we've already seen
with primitive data wrappers and String objects.
The new keyword for an Object will call a special
initialization method called a constructor.
You can define your own constructor, or constructors,
or Java may generate a default constructor for you.
We'll be discussing constructors in more depth
in a future video.
Alternative ways of instantiating a new Object
are the clone method, which we reviewed in the section
on arrays, and it won't go over here.
Or deserializing an Object is yet another way
of instantiating a new Object,
but this is not part of the exam.
So, the code on-screen there,
Object o equals new Object parentheses,
that's an example of using new to create a new Object
of type java.lang.Object, which is the class.
The referenced address to this new Object in memory
is passed to the variable o.
You can declare an Object and instantiate it
in the same statement, as I've just demonstrated.
You can declare and instantiate multiple Objects
in one statement as long as they're of the same type.
You can also chain declarations and instantiations.
So, here's some examples of declarations and instantiations
that are both valid, which we'll show first
and then we'll move onto the invalid ones.
First valid one is Object a equals new Object parentheses.
That's a pretty straightforward declaration
and initialization of a single Object.
The next one, Object a equals new Object parentheses comma b
equals new Object parentheses.
Again, a fairly straightforward declaration
and initialization of multiple Objects,
this time of the same type.
The third valid statement, Object b comma a equals b
equals new Object parentheses.
So, here Object b is declared and a is declared
and assigned to b, which is assigned a new Object reference.
The next example, Object a equals new Object parentheses
comma s equals new String parentheses testing.
Well, this actually works because s, in this case a String,
is declared as an Object.
String is a subtype of Object, and so this compound
statement is, in fact, valid.
All right, so now let's look at some invalid statements.
The first one, Object a equals b comma b
equals new Object parentheses.
Well, Object b is not actually declared in this statement.
Next, we've got Object a equals b
equals new Object parentheses.
Here, Object b is not actually declared in this statement,
so it's invalid as well.
The third one, String s equals new String parentheses
testing in double quotes comma a
equals new Object parentheses.
Well, this one doesn't work because an Object
is not a subtype of String.
The last one, we've got Object a equals new Object
parentheses comma String s equals new String
parentheses and testing in double quotes.
So, you can't define and instantiate classes
of different types in the same statement,
declaring different types for each,
even if the different type is a subtype of the first type.
And that's the reason why that was invalid.
All right, so let's finish the video here.
Then the next one, we'll talk briefly about
to how the JVM allocates memory,
and then we'll move onto some coding examples.
See you in the next video.